let's bring in William shamberg he's
head of the international Committee of
the Red Cross he's joining us live from
Rafa and Southern Gaza thank you for
your time uh terrible conditions in the
north as we were Hearing in that report
and over the past week communities in
other parts of the north have endured
increased fighting I know there are
evacuation orders for thousands of
families in the north but are the living
conditions any better anywhere else in
this
trip uh good afternoon Elizabeth thank
you very much for having me on the show
uh the conditions across the Gaza strips
today frankly um lack words to describe
the level of desperation and need of the
civilian
population uh communities uh that have
displaced uh countless times uh Rising
issues when it comes to hunger and the
lack of access to food um hospitals that
no longer function uh and the pr ing
insecurity which continues um for far
too long as uh we are now in the 9mon uh
Mark of this devastating conflict uh
affecting so many people and we can only
see a glimpse really from the pictures
that we're looking at of the situation
there the the the piles of rubbish in
the north we showed pictures earlier of
people clamoring onto Aid trucks because
they're so desperate for food how much
Aid are you seeing arriving into Gaza
not enough uh is the short answer um we
at the uh International Committee of the
Red Cross the ICC are doing what we can
uh to try and meet needs particularly in
the health sector through the Red Cross
Field hospital that we operate here in
Rafa and through support to other
medical facilities uh we have been able
to bring in some of the desperately
required supplies in order for our
doctors and nurses to continue treating
the wounded and the sick but uh we see
that bringing things into Gaza is
extremely
complicated and that is only uh made
even worse by the continued breakdown of
Law and Order uh which is hampering our
capacity to deliver assistance uh to
those who need it the most uh we
urgently call for an increase in the
amount of assistance that can enter the
GZA strip unimpeded so that we and other
humanitarian organizations uh can
quickly meet the needs of the civilian
population and I know that your
organization has said it's received
hundreds of calls in recent days from
people desperate for help you've
mentioned um the sort of some medical
limited Medical Aid that you are able to
provide but what other services are you
still able to
provide so uh as I mentioned
the International Red Cross uh runs a fi
hospital here in Rafa uh we have uh
wherever we can also tried to provide
other services uh to internally
displaced families those who have had to
flee their homes on multiple occasions
uh we are trying to work with uh our
partners in the water sector to try and
increase the amount of uh clean water
available to uh civilians desperately in
need of water and sanitation uh we are
trying to um Revitalize Collective
kitchens uh that we were able to operate
in Rafa until the hostilities no longer
uh enabled them to continue functioning
um but uh the conditions are extremely
difficult to operate in uh bringing in
supplies and staff is increasingly
challenging all the while uh the needs
of civilians across the Gaza Strip
continue to escalate met Mr shamberg
thank you so much for giving us your
time to tell us about the situation we
really appreciate it that is William
Shamburg live in
Rafa thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler